Let's understand what's so special about caching dynamic content and why the cache API which we use
thus far might not be the best choice. To begin with that, I want to clarify something else though,
what's the difference between dynamic caching and caching dynamic content?
Both terms have caching and dynamic in the name.
Let's have a look.
They are not the same, dynamic caching is what we did thus far
and it's not a single pattern or something like this, dynamic caching simply means if we have our page
and we send a network request which is intercepted by the service worker, therefore the service worker
reaches out to the network and we then get this back and store this in the cache and return it to the page,
like in our cache then network strategy,
we make sure that we store assets, resources the user requests in the cache
once we got them. We use that not only in the cache then network strategy but in other strategies
too. Basically dynamic caching always happens whenever you not just pre-cache files during the installation
but you add files, resources to the cache once you've got a response during a fetch request.
This is dynamic caching, it just means you dynamically add items to your cache,
that's all.
Now caching dynamic content means something else.
Actually the pattern isn't that different,
we still have a page and we send a network request which gets intercepted by the service worker but we
don't use the cache API,
instead we use a new tool, indexedDB which is an in-browser database, a key-value database.
It runs in the browser and it's there to help you store, well data as all databases do I guess. The difference
to the cache API is that indexedDB is used differently
and that it's not so much about storing CSS or script files or images in there but instead storing JSON
data, XML data,
so basically the structured or unstructured data you're getting back from your back-end, not files, not
assets which define how your application works or looks
but the meat of your application, the content.
So in the end, we still reach out that to get the data from there,
at least if we have a cache then network strategy and we also reach out to the network,
return it to the page via the service worker of course and also store the indexedDB.
So basically this still is a cache then network strategy, just that our cache is no longer the application
cache we used with the cache API
but instead indexedDB. The question then of course still is, why would we use that?
So first of all, we have to recognize that we're talking about data that changes frequently and therefore
is dynamic, that is what's meant with Dynamic Content
and it typically is in JSON format or XML format but JSON is the most common choice nowadays.
And for that, the indexedDB just happens to be really good because it's a key-value database, we can
store JSON data there and we can have more power over it than we have in the normal cache API. There
we can just store the response and we have to parse the response, we never really use it, it's the whole HTTP
response. In indexedDB, we can already store the formatted response or whatever we want,
we can store pieces of the response,
we have the full power over what we want to store,
which part of the response we want to store. Now that doesn't make much sense for CSS files
because there we typically want to store the complete response because we would just want to serve that
to our page in the end
but for data, JSON data, dynamic data, we might want to pick certain fields we want to store, maybe
you want to transform it,
think about the transformation we're already doing in our project with that data from Firebase.
That's why indexedDB is a great choice for dynamic content
typically in a JSON format, we can transform and we have more control over it,
the cache API is possible to be used and it's not necessarily wrong or bad but you can definitely use
indexedDB for that
and it might hold some significant advantages.
So that's the key thing,
the approach is the same, cache then network but the data, nature and format is different and therefore
we might want to store it differently.
Of course, we can use indexedDB not only with the cache then network approach, you can basically use it
whenever you use the cache API, just for JSON data,
typically not so much for CSS file, Javascript files but if you have JSON data, feel free to use any
of the strategies you learned about in the last modules and replace the cache with indexedDB for
JSON data.
Now let's learn more about indexedDB and let's then use it in our project.